if a man steals an ox or a sheep and
if a man steals an ox or a sheep and slaughters it or sells it he shall
slaughters it or sells it he shall
slaughters it or sells it he shall restore five oxen for an ox and four
restore five oxen for an ox and four
restore five oxen for an ox and four sheep for a sheep if the thief is found
sheep for a sheep if the thief is found
sheep for a sheep if the thief is found breaking in and he is struck so that he
breaking in and he is struck so that he
breaking in and he is struck so that he dies there shall be no guilt for his
dies there shall be no guilt for his
dies there shall be no guilt for his bloodshed if the Sun has risen on him
bloodshed if the Sun has risen on him
bloodshed if the Sun has risen on him there shall be guilt for his bloodshed
there shall be guilt for his bloodshed
there shall be guilt for his bloodshed he should make full restitution if he
he should make full restitution if he
he should make full restitution if he has nothing then he shall be sold for
has nothing then he shall be sold for
has nothing then he shall be sold for his theft
his theft
his theft if the theft is certainly found alive in
if the theft is certainly found alive in
if the theft is certainly found alive in his hand
his hand
his hand whether it is an ox or donkey or sheep
whether it is an ox or donkey or sheep
whether it is an ox or donkey or sheep he shall restore double if a man causes
he shall restore double if a man causes
he shall restore double if a man causes a field or vineyard to be grazed and
a field or vineyard to be grazed and
a field or vineyard to be grazed and lets loose his animal and it feeds in
lets loose his animal and it feeds in
lets loose his animal and it feeds in another man's field he shall make
another man's field he shall make
another man's field he shall make restitution from the best of his own
restitution from the best of his own
restitution from the best of his own field and the best of his own vineyard
field and the best of his own vineyard
field and the best of his own vineyard if fire breaks out and catches in forms
if fire breaks out and catches in forms
if fire breaks out and catches in forms so that stacked grain standing grain or
so that stacked grain standing grain or
so that stacked grain standing grain or the field is consumed he who kindled the
the field is consumed he who kindled the
the field is consumed he who kindled the fire shall surely make restitution if a
fire shall surely make restitution if a
fire shall surely make restitution if a man delivers to his neighbor money or
man delivers to his neighbor money or
man delivers to his neighbor money or articles to keep and it is stolen out of
articles to keep and it is stolen out of
articles to keep and it is stolen out of the man's house if the thief is found he
the man's house if the thief is found he
the man's house if the thief is found he shall pay double if the thief is not
shall pay double if the thief is not
shall pay double if the thief is not found then the master of the house shall
found then the master of the house shall
found then the master of the house shall be brought to the judges to see whether
be brought to the judges to see whether
be brought to the judges to see whether he has put his hand into his neighbor's
he has put his hand into his neighbor's
he has put his hand into his neighbor's gourds for any kind of trespass whether
gourds for any kind of trespass whether
gourds for any kind of trespass whether it concerns an ox a donkey a sheep or
it concerns an ox a donkey a sheep or
it concerns an ox a donkey a sheep or clothing or for any kind of lost thing
clothing or for any kind of lost thing
clothing or for any kind of lost thing which another claims to be here's the
which another claims to be here's the
which another claims to be here's the cause of both parties shall come before
cause of both parties shall come before
cause of both parties shall come before the judges and whomever the judges
the judges and whomever the judges
the judges and whomever the judges condemn shall pay double to his neighbor
condemn shall pay double to his neighbor
condemn shall pay double to his neighbor if a man delivers to his neighbor a
if a man delivers to his neighbor a
if a man delivers to his neighbor a donkey an ox a sheep or any animal to
donkey an ox a sheep or any animal to
donkey an ox a sheep or any animal to keep and it dies is hurt or driven away
keep and it dies is hurt or driven away
keep and it dies is hurt or driven away no one seeing it then an oath of the
no one seeing it then an oath of the
no one seeing it then an oath of the Lord shall be between them both that he
Lord shall be between them both that he
Lord shall be between them both that he has not put his hand into him
has not put his hand into him
has not put his hand into him neighbors goods and the owner of it
neighbors goods and the owner of it
neighbors goods and the owner of it shall accept that and he shall not make
shall accept that and he shall not make
shall accept that and he shall not make it good but if in fact it is stolen from
it good but if in fact it is stolen from
it good but if in fact it is stolen from him he shall make restitution to the
him he shall make restitution to the
him he shall make restitution to the owner of it if it is torn to pieces by a
owner of it if it is torn to pieces by a
owner of it if it is torn to pieces by a beast then he shall bring it as evidence
beast then he shall bring it as evidence
beast then he shall bring it as evidence and he shall not make good what was torn
and he shall not make good what was torn
and he shall not make good what was torn and if a man borrows anything from his
and if a man borrows anything from his
and if a man borrows anything from his neighbor and it becomes injured or dies
neighbor and it becomes injured or dies
neighbor and it becomes injured or dies the owner of it not being with it he
the owner of it not being with it he
the owner of it not being with it he shall surely make it good if its owner
shall surely make it good if its owner
shall surely make it good if its owner was with it he shall not make it good if
was with it he shall not make it good if
was with it he shall not make it good if it was hired it came for its hire if a
it was hired it came for its hire if a
it was hired it came for its hire if a man entices a virgin who is not
man entices a virgin who is not
man entices a virgin who is not betrothed and lies with her he shall
betrothed and lies with her he shall
betrothed and lies with her he shall surely pay the bride price for her to be
surely pay the bride price for her to be
surely pay the bride price for her to be his wife
his wife
his wife if her father utterly refuses to give
if her father utterly refuses to give
if her father utterly refuses to give her to him he shall pay money according
her to him he shall pay money according
her to him he shall pay money according to the bride price of virgins you shall
to the bride price of virgins you shall
to the bride price of virgins you shall not permit a sorceress to live whoever
not permit a sorceress to live whoever
not permit a sorceress to live whoever lies with an animal shall surely be put
lies with an animal shall surely be put
lies with an animal shall surely be put to death he who sacrifices to any God
to death he who sacrifices to any God
to death he who sacrifices to any God except to the Lord only he shall be
except to the Lord only he shall be
except to the Lord only he shall be utterly destroyed you shall neither
utterly destroyed you shall neither
utterly destroyed you shall neither mistreat a stranger nor oppress him for
mistreat a stranger nor oppress him for
mistreat a stranger nor oppress him for you were strangers in the land of Egypt
you were strangers in the land of Egypt
you were strangers in the land of Egypt you shall not afflict any widow or
you shall not afflict any widow or
you shall not afflict any widow or fatherless child if you afflict them in
fatherless child if you afflict them in
fatherless child if you afflict them in any way and they cry at all to me I will
any way and they cry at all to me I will
any way and they cry at all to me I will surely hear their cry and my wrath will
surely hear their cry and my wrath will
surely hear their cry and my wrath will become hot and I will kill you with the
become hot and I will kill you with the
become hot and I will kill you with the sword your wives shall be widows and
sword your wives shall be widows and
sword your wives shall be widows and your children fatherless if you lend
your children fatherless if you lend
your children fatherless if you lend money to any of my people who are poorer
money to any of my people who are poorer
money to any of my people who are poorer among you you shall not be like a
among you you shall not be like a
among you you shall not be like a moneylender to him you shall not charge
moneylender to him you shall not charge
moneylender to him you shall not charge him interest
him interest
him interest if you ever take your neighbors garment
if you ever take your neighbors garment
if you ever take your neighbors garment as a pledge you shall return it to him
as a pledge you shall return it to him
as a pledge you shall return it to him before the Sun goes down for that is his
before the Sun goes down for that is his
before the Sun goes down for that is his only covering it is his garment for his
only covering it is his garment for his
only covering it is his garment for his skin
skin
skin what will he sleep in and it will be
what will he sleep in and it will be
what will he sleep in and it will be that when he cries to me I will hear for
that when he cries to me I will hear for
that when he cries to me I will hear for I am gracious
I am gracious
I am gracious you shall not revile God nor curse a
you shall not revile God nor curse a
you shall not revile God nor curse a ruler of your people
ruler of your people
ruler of your people you shall not delay to offer the first
you shall not delay to offer the first
you shall not delay to offer the first of your ripe produce and your juices the
of your ripe produce and your juices the
of your ripe produce and your juices the firstborn of your sons you shall give to
firstborn of your sons you shall give to
firstborn of your sons you shall give to me likewise you shall do with your oxen
me likewise you shall do with your oxen
me likewise you shall do with your oxen and your sheep it shall be with its
and your sheep it shall be with its
and your sheep it shall be with its mother seven days on the eighth day you
mother seven days on the eighth day you
mother seven days on the eighth day you shall give it to me and you shall be
shall give it to me and you shall be
shall give it to me and you shall be holy men to me you shall not eat meat
holy men to me you shall not eat meat
holy men to me you shall not eat meat torn by beasts in the field you shall
torn by beasts in the field you shall
torn by beasts in the field you shall throw it to the dogs
throw it to the dogs
throw it to the dogs you